This directory contains a number of auxiliary files that are used by the
docbook build system to convert the documentation in docbook-xml format to
various output formats.

* catalog.xml:
    This is a XML catalog file. The file is used by the tools that process
    docbook sources to map public identifiers, which are commonly found in
    docbook source files, such as 
      "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.3//EN"
    to local files. The default version of the file refers to a generic 
    catalog file that is commonly found in /etc/xml/catalog.

    You can modify the file if you want to use a particular version of docbook
    schema files or XSL stylesheets to produce the output. This is very useful
    because there is no need to modify source docbook files, the catalog file
    can be used to re-map the public identifier in those files to a local (and
    possibly customized) version of the schema or stylesheets.

* common.xsl:
    This file contains docbook XSL stylesheet customizations that are shared
    by all output-specific XSL files, for example, the code that strips
    leading and trailing whitespace in <screen> sections is located here.

* dep.xsl:
    This file contains a special XSL stylesheet which can be used to produce a
    file with dependencies for any given docbook source file. The stylesheet
    traverses docbook documents and looks for files included with the
    xi:include mechanism, or for files included by docbook tags, such as
    images, screen listings, etc. The list of dependencies is then written in
    a separate file and the file can be included in a Makefile that is used to
    build documentation. This is all done by the docbook makefile system.

* html.chunked.xsl: 
    The stylesheet in this file is used to generate HTML output split in
    multiple files. This is useful if you need to generate HTML files with
    documentation for browsers that do not support XHTML.

* Makefile:
    This is the main Makefile of the Docbook build system. Rules implemented
    in this Makefile can be used to validate docbook documents, generate lists
    of dependendies, generate HTML, plain-text, READMEs, and other output
    formats out of docbook documents. This file is not meant to be used
    directly. Instead, each directory with docbook source files should have
    its own minimal Makefile which includes this file.

* man.xsl:
    This stylesheet can be used to convert docbook sources into man pages. The
    docbook build system uses this stylesheet to convert docbook files with
    man pages contents to real man pages, some modules contain such docbook
    files.

* readme.xsl:
	This stylesheet is used to generate module README files from docbook sources.

* sr-doc.css:
    The CSS stylesheets that are used for online HTML documentation generated
    from docbook sources.

* txt.xsl:
    The XSL stylesheet used to generate plain text version of the
    documentation.  XHTML stylesheets are used to generate XHTML code that is
    then fed to lynx to produce plain a text version. This stylesheet contains
    XHTML customization that are applied only when a plain-text output is
    desired.

  -- Jan Janak <jan@iptel.org>
